\documentclass[12pt]{article}

\usepackage{sbc-template}

\usepackage{graphicx,url}

%\usepackage[brazil]{babel}   
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}  

     
\sloppy

\title{Especificação do Projeto da Disciplina Laboratório de Programação Web - MATC84\\ Colé de Merma do RU}

\author{Caio N. Lima\inst{1}, Gabriel Erbetta\inst{1}, Marino S. Santos 
  \inst{1}, Nilton V. C. Junior\inst{1} }


\address{Departamento de Ciência da Computação -- Universidade Federal da Bahia
  (UFBA)\\
  Av. Adhemar de Barros, Ondina -- Salvador -- BA -- Brasil
  \email{\{nedel,flavio\}@inf.ufrgs.br, R.Bordini@durham.ac.uk,
  jomi@inf.furb.br}
}

\begin{document} 

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}
  This document describes the specifications of Laboratório de Programação Web class project.
  The project intend to solves a problematic, that university community faces in nowadays, 
  in yours most basic rights, the alimentation rights.
\end{abstract}
     
\begin{resumo} 
  Este documento descreve as especificações do projeto da disciplina Laboratório 
  de Programação Web. O projeto visa desenvolver uma solução voltada para a problemática
  vivenciada pela comunidade universitária, no seu mais básico direito, à alimentação.  
\end{resumo}


\section{Introdução}

All full papers and posters (short papers) submitted to some SBC conference,
including any supporting documents, should be written in English or in
Portuguese. The format paper should be A4 with single column, 3.5 cm for upper
margin, 2.5 cm for bottom margin and 3.0 cm for lateral margins, without
headers or footers. The main font must be Times, 12 point nominal size, with 6
points of space before each paragraph. Page numbers must be suppressed.

Full papers must respect the page limits defined by the conference.
Conferences that publish just abstracts ask for \textbf{one}-page texts.

\section{Sistema Proposto} \label{sec:firstpage}

The first page must display the paper title, the name and address of the
authors, the abstract in English and ``resumo'' in Portuguese (``resumos'' are
required only for papers written in Portuguese). The title must be centered
over the whole page, in 16 point boldface font and with 12 points of space
before itself. Author names must be centered in 12 point font, bold, all of
them disposed in the same line, separated by commas and with 12 points of
space after the title. Addresses must be centered in 12 point font, also with
12 points of space after the authors' names. E-mail addresses should be
written using font Courier New, 10 point nominal size, with 6 points of space
before and 6 points of space after.

The abstract and ``resumo'' (if is the case) must be in 12 point Times font,
indented 0.8cm on both sides. The word \textbf{Abstract} and \textbf{Resumo},
should be written in boldface and must precede the text.

\subsection{Requisitos}

The subsection titles must be in boldface, 12pt, flush left.

\subsection{Arquitetura}

The subsection titles must be in boldface, 12pt, flush left.

\subsection{Casos de uso}

The subsection titles must be in boldface, 12pt, flush left.

Figure and table captions should be centered if less than one line
(Figure~\ref{fig:exampleFig1}), otherwise justified and indented by 0.8cm on
both margins, as shown in Figure~\ref{fig:exampleFig2}. The caption font must
be Helvetica, 10 point, boldface, with 6 points of space before and after each
caption.

\begin{figure}[ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{fig1.jpg}
\caption{A typical figure}
\label{fig:exampleFig1}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=.3\textwidth]{fig2.jpg}
\caption{This figure is an example of a figure caption taking more than one
  line and justified considering margins mentioned in Section~\ref{sec:figs}.}
\label{fig:exampleFig2}
\end{figure}

In tables, try to avoid the use of colored or shaded backgrounds, and avoid
thick, doubled, or unnecessary framing lines. When reporting empirical data,
do not use more decimal digits than warranted by their precision and
reproducibility. Table caption must be placed before the table (see Table 1)
and the font used must also be Helvetica, 10 point, boldface, with 6 points of
space before and after each caption.

\begin{table}[ht]
\centering
\caption{Variables to be considered on the evaluation of interaction
  techniques}
\label{tab:exTable1}
\includegraphics[width=.7\textwidth]{table.jpg}
\end{table}

\section{Conclusão}

All images and illustrations should be in black-and-white, or gray tones,
excepting for the papers that will be electronically available (on CD-ROMs,
internet, etc.). The image resolution on paper should be about 600 dpi for
black-and-white images, and 150-300 dpi for grayscale images.  Do not include
images with excessive resolution, as they may take hours to print, without any
visible difference in the result. 

\section{References}

Bibliographic references must be unambiguous and uniform.  We recommend giving
the author names references in brackets, e.g. \cite{knuth:84},
\cite{boulic:91}, and \cite{smith:99}.

The references must be listed using 12 point font size, with 6 points of space
before each reference. The first line of each reference should not be
indented, while the subsequent should be indented by 0.5 cm.

\bibliographystyle{sbc}
\bibliography{sbc-template}

\end{document}
